Project Background  
------------------

Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) multiplication mutations have been linked to familial Parkinson's disease. Over the years several families have been published with SNCA duplication and/or triplication mutations.  SNCA duplication carriers have motor onset by their six decade although many carriers may remain clinically asymptomatic throughout their life. SNCA triplication carriers generally have earlier onset, by their forth decade, with much faster progression with dementia. SNCA gene dosage is directly correlated with gene/protein expression, age of onset and disease progression.

Our objective has long been to predict and prevent parkinsonism and dementia. SNCA multiplication carriers and their families may most readily inform biomarkers of Lewy body disease. Now that alpha-synuclein targeted therapeutics are in clinical trials, SNCA families may most immediately benefit. However, the distribution of SNCA carriers is globally scattered and should be a function of population size, suggesting additional families have yet to be identified. Many carriers are also seemingly sporadic patients for which further genealogical studies are important.

Thus we have initiated an SNCA Multiplication Consortium, its world-wide activity coordinated by [GEOPD](http://www.geopd.org) members: in North America by Matt Farrer, in Europe by Alexis Brice and in Asia by Nobutaka Hattori and Beomseok Jeon). 
 
The SNCA Multiplication Consortium is to: 

+ Perform a meta-analysis of affected probands, to compile and compare clinical (autonomic, motor & cognitive), genealogic and genetic data.
+ Identify new SNCA multiplication cases. Our criteria is a dominant family history of parkinsonism and/or dementia, with 2 or more affected relatives within 2 degrees of relationship. This screening will be performed for existing family members or new patients. 

Activities to Date
------------------

Authors on ~25 past studies have been contacted, and all these investigators have formally agreed to participate.
The study currently includes affected probands of 61 families.
The SNCA Multiplication Consortium is to provide:

+ High density Illumina array genotyping of affected SNCA multiplication probands and families, to define the chromosome 4q21 multiplication region.
Taqman CNV analysis of SNCA locus
+ Short tandem repeat genotyping within and surrounding the SNCA locus.
+ A REDcap database mechanism to collate clinical data, including age of motor and dementia onset, focusing on probands, with a working group to harmonize variables. 
+ A survey of what other biomarker data/biosamples might be available.  We would also like to include data from all family members.
+ Genotyping to define other risk factors (SNCA variability, APOE, GBA, SCAR2B etc). 
+ An assessment the variance in phenotypes within and across families, to quantify the power to assess known genetic modifiers, and perhaps map new ones.
 
The SNCA Multiplication Consortium provides the impetus for futures studies, including an assessment of disease modifiers, biomarkers and clinical trials. Our clinical and scientific membership has expertise and experience in biomarker analysis in monogenic and idiopathic PD, including cardiac and brain PET, MRI, biochemistry (in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma and urine), metabolomics, metagenomics genetic and genomic analyses.  The SNCA Multiplication Consortium is to seek funds to support these activities.  An initial application for funding has been submitted to the Michael J Fox Foundation (for details see PDF).
